Just one, two, just, just, just, just.
We just started the other one.
Why don't you just, can you just do what you just said once more?
Well, America has this great ambition to be loved by our own slave, with us in America.
And it's a very laudable strength, but we have the
certainly misinterpreted America for my time as a country somewhat less than only interested in a new typewriter.
But it was, of course, years and years ago
But we didn't take America in the field of athletics quite as serious as we should have.
It's quite remarkable.
the Morgan Library, the Smithsonian.
So it was founded or made possible by an Englishman.
It's something that is unique in the world and unique in the field of culture.
Even the Louvre or the British Museum cannot compare
in intellectual display with the Smithsonian Institute,
with the museums and the history of art.
Do you think it's uniquely a 20th century institution, even though it's 150 years old?
Yeah, very naturally.
It has been developed only since the beginning of the century.
When you look at the focus on the kinds of things that are preserved, I think that you know Roger Kennedy, you remember Roger Kennedy,
No, no, no.
By no means they'll come.
This is just terrible.
No, that shouldn't be.
I did it.
No way you didn't.
Maybe we can come back.
Maybe we can see you again.
Well, you must come back soon.
Thank you.
That is a wonderful thing to have an invitation.
Because I think we've worn you out today.
Well, no, it was a great pleasure.
After all, he has all this...
yearning and talking about ourselves.
It's not a very laudable human quality.
No, no, we're not.
I'm pleased to my wife.
She's in charge.
Yes, how lucky you are.
The pleasure is ours, Dr. McClendon.
No, I feel privileged.
I hope you will come back and be some other little adventure.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
But it is interesting.
I remember hearing Roger Kennedy and asking him about... See, one of the criticisms of the University of Texas is that they try to get everything.
It's just the opposite of Rato Bedman who throws things away.
They throw nothing away.
They would keep scraps of paper like this.
They would keep...
anything, and I think the Smithsonian in many ways does that, because Kennedy says, in order to understand the masterpiece... Have a nice afternoon, everybody.
Thank you.
There's always something...
Did you find most of these pictures yourself through your own research?
Yes.
I had this enormous state library at my disposal.
But it's simply an American, the sideline, the accessibility to books is so marvelous here.
When we went to the state library, Prussian state library, it's really probably comfortable to the Harvard Library.
If you want to have a certain book, you have to order it.
the day before, then come back the next day, and then you had it.
But this free access to books is something so marvelous that Americans just feel not appreciated enough.
They think it has always been so.
I was very surprised to read in your book that they didn't allow you to take the books home.
No, very little, very little.
When I did some work at the Bibliothèque Nationale, I mean, you have to, it's the same thing.
You sit down, and it really is, and if you get a seat, it's a big deal.
If they give you a place at this table,
And this is a very, you're considered a big shot.
To get in already.
That's right, yeah.
It was a lot easier to get a reader's pass at the British Library.
That was pretty good, I must say.
But they are very particular.
Thank you, thank you.
Anyway, I wonder whether this is really essential.
You had really enough of this.
That's the actual moment.
We already looked at the first assignment.
You're going back the other way now.
You see there's something.
I took a lot of them out.
I love that.
Now what is this that you just put there?
We had this already.
Could you go back to that?
Yeah.
This is where they're going to burn the books, right?
Yeah, right.
They came to the library and took it out.
I want to use one of these pictures in my next book of the Germans destroying the books.
I think it's very important to show the atmosphere that was building up.
Yeah, right.
There they are, right there.
So proud of what they're doing here.
And then I showed you how I got into business in getting a little more commercial in finding old pictures which apply to modern commercial products.
And that's the man who... What is that one, Doctor?
This one I sold to a man who made powder, anti-itching powder.
And there was a famous lord in England who established hitching posts for his shepherds so they could sketch themselves.
And every time they did, they'd say,
God bless the Lord of our God, you know.
And then this thing with sex education is nothing new, something that hypocrites discuss very freely.
Only during the Middle Ages, you know, we lost so much of the free thinking of the antiquity.
The ancients were really quite open-minded about sex, about
They're intimate different selves.
See, what we have to understand is that you're doing this before the invention of the copying machine.
You're going in with your camera and finding these pictures, but because nobody could come in with a Xerox machine, you are doing the research, too, and finding them, and when you discover them, you take a photograph of them, right?
Yeah, yeah, certainly.
This is pre-Xerox machines.
Now, this is what?
I don't know whether it's my book.
I mean, how things sit out so new, well, it has to be a great task.
It gives you a more historical perspective.
Well, then, how I came to America.
Oh, that's famous.
Yeah.
America was very picture-minded from the very beginning, and doing things faster, doing things more efficiently, and...
So the whole nation could really partake in this enormous forward drive towards the West.
People were very picture hungry in the olden days.
America had already facilities.
People could make a living by simply selling pictures.
It was something quite new.
And then an enormous backlog of magazines that was weekly.
You could pick up those numbers before you said a whole year's worth, about five dollars?
Yeah, something, yeah.
And then you cut them apart and instead of having...
from a logical view of its subject.
Because most of it are through a day.
There probably a hundred days.
In my own books, but there's really not much.
I really wanted you to come.
a blacksmith, a normal blacksmith who couldn't keep his mind of books.
He was in a library in his forge.
And then people who got inspiration.
It's not new in the world, in a way.
It's very happening, seeing, but it applies.
People think skyscrapers are new, people always dreamt about it.
You get how this applies.
In New York, and it was about four or five weeks ago, these things that I had shown Edward Soverell, isn't that his name?
I think he had a similar style.
I'm sure he was inspired by these old pictures.
The last thing that has been sort of my basic picture.
That's the one that you're hearing me in the wall.
You have all this and the snapper wanted something.
It gives their drinks or something.
Hmm?
Yeah, you saw them this?
Yeah, there's a telepline in there.
And now they're using it even for other flavors.
Anyway, and then this sale to cows.
But you have all seen that already.
How did you get rights to these photographs, right?
How did you get the rights to these photographs?
These are already in the new period.
Oh, this is the UPI pictures?
Yeah, these are already.
I see.
I wanted to ask you, you have seen this.
This is, you know, what I'm going to treat you with.
Let me see.
I wanted to ask you whether you...
You have these books here.
You mentioned this book here.
Of course, these things about the bookmen in general are old hats for you.
Yes, this is a whole book Jackson.
Yes, I have this.
You have this book.
Yes, thank you, however.
That's a wonderful book.
This I don't have.
I don't know this one.
I don't know.
It's written by a writer.
I don't think you need it.
That's inscribed to you.
This is a book that's inscribed to me.
But do you have this book about cows?
Yes, I do have that.
Well, you have everything.
I can give you everything.
I don't have that, but I'm going to get that.
I know that book.
That's a new book from Crown, I think.
This is from, you watch.
No, not Crown.
I think it is from... Look at this beautiful illustration.
At home with the books.
I've heard of this book.
Florian Shasky showed me this book out in California.
Carol Southern Books.
I don't even know that.
And look, this is inscribed to you, too.
How do you like that?
She wanted me to get in there.
Yeah, it's Carol Southern Books.
It's in the last year, 1995.
And I did see a division of Clapson and Carter, which is a division of Croft, which is by the Croft, so I was right.
Definitely Mr. Benjamin.
Yeah.
This is a famous picture here.
He has that one in his book.
Look at this.
A celebration of reading readers.
Isn't that wonderful?
Do you know this woman, Estelle?
Yeah, she came here and was all handsome.
Beautiful.
She was something with...
That's quite nice.
That's lovely.
And this is just published, so I can get this very easily.
Just let me get to see how book lovers live with and care for their lives.
Good.
Wouldn't you love that paper?
Yeah.
There are some other ideas.
Okay.
I just want to get the movie off.
Julian, Florian had this at his house.
It's still Ellis.
at all.
Those Carol Southern books.
You know, all my life I have been a very avid collector of the quotes.
Quotations.
Yeah.
I can see that in your book.
And here is my life's collection of all these things.
And I
They are rather not the usual, oh please be seated if something, they are not, you know, this usual collection of quotes, I find them very blah blah.
These things have all, I think, a more thing to it.
I'm curious about this quote that you have here.
Why did you put that particular quote there?
Which one?
It said, this material, created by the world's great minds, should be put on computer disk and sold as a quotation bank to a software manufacturer.
Consolidate with my notebooks.
Very interesting.
Yeah.
So I wonder whether in any way I could interest you in a project of this book.
We'll begin to try to give you all of the raw material that, you know, they only have a little more sip to it.
Yeah.
I mean, things like this or give your soul.
Now, these are quotations that you found in books, right?
You call this your word bank, a quotation bank.
And I think that, of course, is something that reaches into the New Age.
To publish it would be overwhelming.
You have to put this on a CD.
I think so.
I mean, it's Barclay.
Do you know if Mr... Let me pick that up for you.
Mr. Kaplan Knudish.
Yes, I know Justin Kaplan.
Let me pick that up for you.
Okay, I'll get that.
Do you know these are... No, no, no, no, doctor.
Let me get it.
They're great writers, but they're often quite lame.
And these quotes that I have collected are really...
You have a little more thing to it.
Yeah, a little bite, I think.
Yeah.
And I wanted to ask you whether you would be interested in... Of course, it's not creative enough for you, and I would have to do a lot of work.
Could you dictate the quotes that I find pertinent to...
into a computer setup and then I don't know things such as there are certainly quote books on computers but that's not a bad idea a quote book on computers is not a bad idea I am sure that the Tutman book is on a computer you know all my life I have collected what I call it not bad
English was my mother tongue.
Every possible word.
So you see something that you like and you write it down.
Yeah.
In a category.
That looks like a pretty good book, doesn't it?
Yeah.
Beautiful.
Wow.
Well, he gets so possessed by his vital material that he loses his mastery of it.
Well, Henry James cannot surpass for his bongo, that's right.
Now, over a period of how many years has it been that you've been gathering?
Oh, there you go.
So that goes to be big.
Maybe 20 years.
Oh, there you go.
It's all well organized here.
Everything is fine.
I love it.
Yeah, it's amazing.
You know, I don't want to say anything and then not be able to—I'd like to—let me think about it, Doctor, okay?
And what I would want to do is talk to my editor and see if it's something that he'd be interested in.
Do you want me to take this piece of paper off the painting before the tape gets to—I don't need to do this without doing that.
You say you're not in the computer age, but—
I have the basic of it, and I know the principle of it, but the step into electronics, and I'm still an old-fashioned monk who writes, and time has overtaken me.
An old-fashioned monk, huh?
I'm going to write that down.
Such things have been done.
I'm not the first one.
I'm sorry that you picked your frame.
No, this is wonderful.
Do you read, did I ask you whether or not you read new books?
Or do you more or less go over books that you've enjoyed over the years?
No, it's more the old-fashioned, the classics.
I'm not the first one.
You quote Britton in your book.
You quote Robert Britton, The Anatomy of Melancholy.
Yeah, I must show you that this is really quite amazing.
You know him, of course, but there is such wisdom in this thing that I thought one should really make a book out of it.
I sent it to my friend Bob Blumis to the condom house.
He couldn't quite see it.
But it is this... Can I read this?
Hmm?
Can I read this?
Yeah, by all means.
He has done very little about it, selling it.
This is very sexy, but if you are older, you'll have to make it.
So you wanted to do, you asked Loomis to do a new edition of this, I guess, right?
Not a new edition.
A rearranged edition, I guess.
A modern edition of it.
I love it.
It's simply picking out the pearls.
Oh, I see what you said.
Okay.
Picking out the pearls.
So you did this yourself here?
Yeah, but I didn't find any takeaways for it.
The burden is too good a ride off the road.
Now, was this there with a color copying machine?
Yeah, these are not quite the right pictures, but this, I think, is quite wonderful.
See what he's doing?
He's trying to juxtapose the art and classic.
What you're trying to do is take classic works and juxtapose the art with the pearls that you're pulling out of the book, I guess.
Yeah, right.
This is Bach, of course.
Of course, it's not easy to read, but there's a wonderfully profound and verbally ingenious... These are famous.
See, this book here, The Anatomy of Bibliomania, he patterned after this.
Jackson tried to do in a bibliomaniaical way what he did with the...
Drs.
Priss, milkers, and piss-profits, hope, anger to the floating.
It's a little too medieval, maybe, for modern taste, you see?
I admire that you put this together like that.
Yeah, well, I had to do a book.
It's just... So you've done about a dozen books together.
Yeah, and some others will simply go into the ash cap.
You can mention it to Alan.
I'd like to mention, how about if I mention this idea to my editor and see what he says.
Yeah.
And just, you know.
But they are not in the computer business.
They are.
Hmm?
These pearls of wisdom add up to a word.
But why would, I understand, what do you mean the computer business?
I mean, putting all of this onto disk is what you're suggesting.
Yeah, right.
And so there's a quotation made to stop with.
This would not be sold to the general public.
It would be sold to businesses.
Oh!
It's kind of like a... It's another... It's like a Bettman archive.
This is another idea of the expression of the Bettman philosophy.
Yeah, absolutely.
All these things that they've known about...
To alphabetize them and make them ready for use.
I see what you're saying.
But I really am not... Let me just read here.
These pearls of wisdom add up to a word bank useful to any writer, whether engaged in commercial, scientific, or literary pursuits.
They are livelier than those found or rather than old classical quotation books like Bartlett.
These quotes were garnered during a lifetime of reading by one who hoped
to burnish his writing by helping himself to some brilliant formulations of the literary greats.
And this is what you have written and put on it here.
It's what I would burnish your... Wouldn't you write down a copy of those by your desk if it was feelable?
This is not something to have the creatist.
I think you ought to... Well, it's what you're saying.
It would have certainly a functional purpose, wouldn't it?
Yeah.
Barb, how many...
I see the sense of what you're doing, though.
What you're suggesting is something that would serve a purpose not unlike your archive of illustrations.
Right.
Is that what you're saying, I think?
Yes.
You have to create, like I arranged the great works of art and
Not too great works of art in topical form to be accessible and to be useful.
Oh, I thank you very much.
I have taken ideas to be pleased up by the wonderful gifts of ancient writers.
But I am much too old to tackle this now, but
I'd just mention it to you.
I'd like to think about it and talk it over with my editor and see if it's something he'd be interested in pursuing.
Yeah.
Are they very computer-minded, are they?
Not really.
Thankfully, from my standpoint, I'm very happy that they're still interested in books as printed objects as opposed to, you know.
material encoded and digitized and put onto computer disks.
But we'll see.
It is a good program for people looking for a program.
A quotation?
I'm not so sure.
You see, there are softwares that have pictures.
You quote very little.
You do it all on your own.
I do it all on my own.
My wife helps me, but I
The bibliography in that book I basically read, and I have all those books.
And when I see things like you, I write them down, or I put bookmarks in them.
All my books at home have bookmarks.
And for the next book I'm going to try and do it a lot easier.
I try to remember where they are and go back to get them when I'm writing them, and that doesn't seem to be very successful.
way of doing it.
I think your procedure was better to write them down as you get them.
Absolutely.
But who had that difficulty?
You will never have the time to read, cast, and catch these pearls of wisdom.
And you don't need it.
I mean, you have your own quite delightful, easy style.
For me, it was simply, I think one has to
Get yourself a big barrel.
It's wonderful material, it really is.
Did Krauss send that book to you?
No, I think it was even before I knew him.
And I had no idea.
No, that book was published about 79, I think, 1979.
It's a new thing.
It did not do well.
In fact, he died shortly after that was published.
Yeah.
I know a lot of Marianne Krause, who runs the business with her mother, Honey.
Yeah, she runs the place now, doesn't she?
Mrs. Krause has nothing to...
You know her either.
She's very, very energetic.
But, I mean, these two girls certainly don't have the know-how of Papa.
I don't know.
He was not very aesthetically inclined.
I think it just was a very good merchant.
A lot of people didn't like him.
He had a lot of enemies.
I guess he
He got a very gruff manner to him.
I don't know.
I never knew him quite so.
He was quite a businessman.
You know how he made this million in this Krauss reprint company.
After the war, so many big libraries in Yugoslavia or in other countries were destroyed with all the big annals of organic chemistry or something like that.
And that he reprinted all these basic... Is this Hans Krauss who did this?
Krauss Reprint Company and sold it to all these libraries in all countries where the war had simply devastated all the basic research material.
And he became a micro-American there.
Is this the same Krauss who bought your archives?
Yeah, it's the same.
Hans Krauss?
Really?
I didn't know it was the same.
No, of course.
It was owned by him.
I think they recently sold it.
And then to make it even easier for him, he located it in Liechtenstein.
So he didn't have to pay tax or anything.
This was the same cross.
The same cross, yeah.
He was not a man of great personal charm or great imagination.
He was simply a very smart Jew.
Very astute, wasn't he?
Hmm?
He was very astute.
Yeah.
So that's how he made his millions?
Yeah, that's how he made his book business.
I didn't know this.
And it's present in the book.
That really was the basic of his wealth.
Well, that's very interesting.
It's fascinating.
Let me, I'll get back to you on this, okay?
Yeah, but don't pursue it too vigorously.
I myself could certainly select or talk it into a machine, but I needed, I would need...
critical voice to tell me, yes, this is good.
But I can tell you what sounds very attractive to me is the opportunity to work if you want something.
Why should you do that when you have something really creative that you can create yourself?
You know, my only concern is that I am just now starting on a new book of my own.
How do you fit in?
You fit in in many ways, and at least three different—we were talking about this after we left here the other night.
You fit—you certainly represent—you were the first to recognize in the twentieth century the importance of art and illustration.
And now this material is going to be digitized for the 21st century.
And also you fit in, I'm going to have a chapter on the people such as yourself, who thankfully managed to escape Germany and came here, and that exiled in paradise type of mold.
But the booksellers have it, not just the booksellers, but the people who influence the transmission of letters and stuff.
and ideas and information like yourself, they haven't really been written about in the book.
I'm going to concentrate on that, just so you fit in there, you fit into the future, you fit into the concept of the 20th century.
I mean, I could see you going into at least three different chapters right now.
Easily.
Is that your thing so far?
I have a concept of it.
I can't say it.
I have to write it.
It's hard for me to articulate it.
I have to write it out.
But I left here very excited the other day.
So much more than I ever expected.
It was a joy.
I knew coming here I was going to get a lot, but I left
Well, you see what I love also is your dedication remains to the written word, to the text.
For all of your lifetime spent as a graphic historian, as this compiler of this extraordinary archive, you still remain committed to the text, to the word man.
That's a wonderful paradox.
It's a wonderful book.
Yes, it is.
All I can have to say is, you're just going to have to wait a little while.
We'll have a book to you in about two years, and you'll see.
And I will go over a lot of this stuff with you, you know.
How did you send us to Holt?
I wrote a proposal.
Well, it's really, I cannot say that this is the age of the book.
The book is on the defensive these days.
The thing is, they bought this book, and they did very well with it.
I wondered, you know, I showed you that I wanted to show it to the Levenger, having a party in XT.
And I looked through their catalog, and I wondered about
Well, it sure does look like it does.
It's not, but it's close.
It looks like it, but it's close.
I'd love to have my book offered by the catalog.
I really would.
Yeah, they have some sort of a party in me.
I've seen him quite often there.
The lights would be, but if you had been here in two weeks, I would be proud to take you along.
And I certainly will show him the book next time I see him.
He's a very literal, you know, my fellow.
Maybe I'll give him a call or write him a letter.
Maybe I should write him a letter, do you think?
I will talk to him, and he will write to you, I'm sure.
I...
of course his stuff is all really for people that as a ruler I'm not a literary I mean simply he wants to buy literature one of my first client was a man who
So it culture by the inch.
He reprinted books with beautiful bindings.
I think the folio society does that.
In these books you never in your whole life will read, but you can
simply buy this A or whatever, all of these books.
And they're expensive.
They're expensive books.
They are very expensive.
My wife and I went to an auction once in Cape Cod, and there were some books I was interested in.
And this woman was paying terrific prices for them.
And I went after her afterwards.
I said, why are you paying all this money for these books?
They're broken up sets.
They're not that important.
And she says, oh, the bindings.
She was buying them for the bindings.
She was going to sell them to people who own apartments in New York City.
There was an acceptable need for that.
But for binding.
That's why she was binding.
It's simply the visual impression.
They don't want the books.
They want to have the reputation of being literary.
And that is a vast crowd.
And here, all things that he has are
terribly overpriced.
I like to listen to the camera.
Your book is a very nice offering there.
I think you said they'll pick that up.
Yeah, it's very nice.
I would like to give you one of these enlarging glasses.
Here, there's a little memorandum.
I've been here.
You're so nice.
You're so fat.
Oh, there was a wonderful article about you yesterday in the Fort Lauderdale paper, which I clipped.
My father called me and said, you know the gentleman he went to see?
I think he's in the newspaper.
Yeah, it was a pretty good story, actually.
It was good, plenty of mistakes in it.
Well, what were the mistakes?
Well, I mean, you see, minor mistakes.
Yeah, but I hate mistakes.
I hate to make them.
I'm curious.
Don't worry about it.
I don't copy stories, but I was just curious, because I thought they did a pretty decent job on it.
This is interesting.
You haven't lived in Deerfield Beach all these years.
You were in Boca for some time.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Just because some of these
People say you live in Boca Raton.
No, that's not true.
I live in Deerfield.
I used to live in Boca, which is a higher notch in the social appreciation.
But when my wife died, we had a wonderful beachfront department.
was lovely, but rather I consigned to be here without my days.
But this terrible sting to create has not quite left me.
But I must really try to live a life where I don't do a book.
Today there are quite a few fragments left, but such a slide I had no complaint.
The book you showed us yesterday, the book about the women's, you mentioned the women's profile, going to a full portrait, and you had a mock book set up.
You're compiling some information for a new book on women that you showed us.
Yeah, right, it's also foolish.
Why do you say that?
I wish you didn't say that.
You have such a vibe.
Yeah, I sure did.
You did, yeah, but you're working on another book.
Yes, I do happen to you, but it's a lot of foolish to do that.
There's projects everywhere.
You have projects everywhere starting.
I also see him as a voice of the 20th century, too, you know.
I don't think it's important.
Boccaccio, you know, all the women's stuff.
This is a great project too.
This is a wonderful project right there.
Yeah, that is very timely.
Instead of writing art history in the way of...
of the artist.
Botticelli is certainly very important, but it's under the social life and also under research.
His interpretation of the paintings, and it's brilliant.
Your interpretation.
Your reading of the pictures is wonderful.
You need 10 years and $10,000.
This is all the women here, right?
This is the hardest part.
Yeah, you know, I mean, can you think of a better picture of a woman advising her husband as some... to a woman in a... in a... in a... in a... in a cosmetic set-up in a...
It's just, I've never thought of this aspect before in my life.
It's so new to me.
Ah, it's amazing.
He's making the connections, the parallel connections.
Of course, some periods are richer, and it is all stuff that simply addresses itself to a woman's life, and not so much the
The artist.
The artist story was always written in terms of great names.
And here we take simply one subject.
Yeah, the thing that women are, they were so important anyway in inspiring artists.
This would be, but it takes ten years to develop it.
Can I put this back in there for you, Doctor?
So, I don't know what to do with this.
Now, do you have somebody come in and help you with the filing, or do you do all this yourself?
I do most of it myself.
Look at this kind.
That's beautiful.
Picasso, maybe, no?
It's a very, very munch, you know, or the paper, to use the paper.
Yes, it would be in high school.
Ten years more to do it.
And it's very visual, naturally.
It's a modern thing.
Gertrude Stein by Caswell.
Right.
It's a good idea, but I need ten more years.
Well, it looks to me like you've got a pretty good start on it, though.
Yeah, I've got a good start.
Yeah.
Wonderful.
Yeah, but it's, it's, it's, it's, it's beautiful.
It looks to me like it's working pretty, uh, you've got it pretty well organized already.
Yeah, I guess it's nice.
What would the title be, if you thought of it?
He's already got a mock-up.
.
Yeah.
It really is, isn't it?
That's it.
And you've done the markup here?
Yeah.
Well, that shows the outline.
Isn't this your calligraphy?
No, that's come true to the east.
That's true.
Yeah.
It's a young girl.
I used to say, I wish you'd see it just be interested in it.
I cannot do it all on my own.
This thing should be as many years.
I mean, sponsorship might be possible, but it's ideal for a big perfume concern, you know?
I'm just going to write down the title.
I think I have some written outline.
Conceptually, yeah.
I'm trying to get a handle on it.
Your own project, which is much more important than you are right now.
I have it.
I showed you this all for thinking of, oh, that's important.
But that's your word, a group book, right?
Yeah.
It is almost like simply set up for pictures instead of for the decimal system for a library, you know.
This, of course, has to be constantly enlarged if there are apothecaries or herbs who do not have laundry, but in the chemistry.
jewelry, and that enabled us to get so quickly at this, that it's always updated.
So it's almost like the Dewey Decimal System.
Yeah, right.
But it's before you.
That was important.
And it is growing all the time.
There's the gates there.
Yeah, you saw that probably.
This must be the time, yeah.
This was my, uh, that was in the Washington Post when I returned to
That I would like to borrow, and I'll copy it.
No, no, no, you don't have to.
These are all copies that I have.
Yes, you may have read, you know, if these are some quite welcome.
Oh, yeah, we have this book, yeah.
Do you have the Wall Street Journal, I guess?
No.
I'll just write down that.
Are these copies, Doctor?
Yeah, these are copies.
I'd like to take that.
It's notice you can clearly have.
This is wonderful.
He'll be angling now for film on the Batman Archive.
And I'm in touch with a young filmmaker who tries to sell it.
He's not too... That was one of our mailing pieces.
This must be 10, 15 years old.
Do you have any other of these?
New, unfortunately, the way from Lars.
Okay, next case.
Who devised this picture?
That's you in profile with the... This was the head that I joined up with this Roscoe here through New York.
Peter Metz.
Yeah.
And I invited all the art directors in New York to come to the Bettman Archive and
helped themselves for a picture that they said they could use and transfer into something modern.
And it came out as a little exhibit, the Batman Panopticon.
I don't know how it is made.
The close of this is a Peter.
Yeah, but that is he in profile.
I know.
I thought it was very clever.
He loved that picture there.
Not only, yes.
CBS was, yes.
He took out a book.
He had a life magazine in his book in 1938.
Then it got into a... P.R.
Marx, as you know, is an immense promoter.
And so...
It had quite a good response.
It's called Betman Panopticon, P-A-N-O-P-T-I-C-O-N.
Let me just write that down.
Yeah.
What does that word mean, participate?
You see all, pan, all, optic, the visual.
The sound is good.
There was a
Yes, it's in the dictionary.
I don't know, some Englishman, I think in a prison.
Oh, yeah, in a prison.
He had a prison.
I forgot now who it was.
The leader of a prison.
He wanted to survey the whole prison complex, and he devised an architectural scheme to do that.
He could see everything.
It sounded good.
I started with all the beautiful women here.
Yes.
I didn't realize that it would happen.
Really, the thing was this, that I had a falling out with Peter Marx.
I really found it impossible.
And they reconstructed a picture of me.
It was really paper mache.
It's very clever.
I didn't realize it until I got here that I was being carried away.
That's lovely.
I have made peace with him at the ceremony two years ago.
This Tilda Wood operator, quite, quite amazing.
There were mobiles.
A poison cannon.
160, 136.
Yeah, that was, uh, the next step from the coal cellar.
Uh-huh.
So you were uptown here for a while.
Yeah.
Did you ever know David Kirschenbaum in New York?
He was a bookseller.
The name sounds very familiar.
Because he was up at, he had the Carnegie Bookshop, and he was up at 157.
Oh, yeah.
That's very famous.
He's in this book.
I interviewed him in this book.
He's in chapter seven or eight.
Yeah, I must look at it.
Well, he was a great figure.
Oh, he did.
He got classic things.
That is lovely.
And this is like a tribute to you here.
Well, not entirely.
The artists gave it their creative touch.
That's very nice.
It was really a publicity gimmick.
People always credited me.
It's too far from my tastes and inclinations.
One of the greatest compliments I always get is
Batman, Batman.
You can be the founder of the Batman Archive.
You must have died.
I thought he died at the Battle of Salamis.
That's 2,500 years ago.
I think I was fortunate in choosing this word archive.
There's not even the word archive in the English language.
It's archaise, you know.
It only exists.
Oh, it's alone in the floor?
Is that right?
Yeah, it's alone in the floor.
So it was kind of an invention for you.
I don't know.
It's a friend of mine.
The first one that you call myself, I'd heard that Beckwald means, no, in my comprehension, Beckwald means
means really idiotic, isn't it?
And then I told my friends I wanted to call them the backward photographer.
So I thought that modern photography photographs the present, and I turned around and photographed the past, or I dug up pictures, but I couldn't go
to this archive was rather fortunate.
It was a huge choice.
It's an excellent choice, because it also gives an impression of vastness.
And when you think of an archive— Vista, vista.
It's huge.
And that's good for you, because you want people to think that this is not just a selection of pictures, it's a vast archive.
I mean, I don't know what it is.
Of course.
I had simply, I don't know what gave that to me, had a very critical attitude towards pictures.
In fact, a good editor sees plenty of written words, but only the top of the crop really does have any chance of having acceptance.
So it always had a certain quality image.
I don't think I deserve it totally, but one makes mistakes.
But it simply was a great time saver for the editorial field.
They had not to weigh through the thousands of pictures that I had.
They found already a certain standard of self, quick reading that the reader doesn't have to home around the picture to the point.
I sent you, I don't know, in this day or whether this will come out, and if you're sure of this article in the Civilization, they have a, I told you, they have a department's caption, and they want to explore the, explore the,
relationship between between picture and caption
Thank you.